# Streaking

It's been a year since I broke my self-imposed hostage crisis. A
444-day development streak that ended without a bang. The number was
round, the era was over, and unlike other long-distance coding
enthusiasts, I wasn't going to make a deal about the end of it.

The beginning was the interesting part, anyways. It started with
accidentally hitting 10 days on a wagerless bet between me and a
coworker: implementing a full-featured templating language before the
end of a month. While the double digits were kind of pleasing, what
was unexpected was friends' reactions. Apart from a couple
cheerleaders, a sort of "what are you trying to do, put us out of
business" jokey tone prevailed. 10 days became 2, 3, 4 weeks. At this
point I was definitely feeling the threatening fragility of a
territory uncharted. Certainly for me, but I didn't even know anyone
who had gotten into the double digits. I had just stumbled onto some
very new legs. And just like that, it felt like the pressure was on to
keep this thing alive.

And that's how it began. The middle mostly treated the streak as a
given. Several times when asked, I proclaimed it was near its end, a
couple times missing the mark by over a year. When it was over though,
coffee-and-cigarette-addicted, I wondered if I'd be able to get back
on that horse again.

As I'm writing I'm up to 40 days, a nice, Biblical number, and it
totally crept up on me. It doesn't feel like a return to glory. As I
sip my sparkling water, it just feels like something I can do at
will. The pressure's gone, but the legs feel like they're here to stay.
