# The Draw of Python

I'm not the first to say it: Python is a damn fine programming
language. I've used it professionally for six years now, and have had
to justify this assertion a thousand times at least. In my unplanned
evangelism, I think I've honed in on a core set of reasons Python is
great. First, the straightforward ones:

1. Python is a top-tier learning language. Whether teaching oneself or
attending top universities around the USA, there is no doubt that
Python excels for learning programming.

2. Python is productivity incarnate. Direct and expressive syntax,
expansive standard library and package index, virtually limitless
documentation online, and countless other reasons make writing Python
the most consistent and direct line to productivity imaginable. In
fact, in my experience, Python has been so directly productive as to
be offputting to developers expecting more lead time to
results. It can take getting used to.

3.


Less straightforward reasons:

4. Python's hybrid nature brings room and directions to grow. What
starts as a beginner's foray into programming follows a very gentle
learning path through virtually every core programming concept. Talking about:

  1. Simple imperative scripts
  2. Function-based procedural programs
  3. Object-oriented programming
  4. Functional programming fundamentals

At this point, domain-specific interests are likely to dominate the
learning, but there are some more abstract specializations that can
occur:

  5a. Low-level/high-performance systems programming, including
  writing and interfacing with external binaries
  5b. Numeric programming, statistics, and machine learning

For more about the particular domains and organizations using Python,
see the next section, and my other post.

5. Python's riparian dynamics. Most readers probably know something
about how deeply Python is used in a particular domain. Within web
programming, Python is used at YouTube, Reddit, Yelp, Dropbox, and
other web giants. This begins to become impressive when we realize
that Python is suitable for this degree of usage across multiple
fields: animation, gaming, media processing, security, neuroscience,
natural language processing, "big data", and more.

Life, civilization, and modernization all seem to happen on
coastlines, and I think the same applies to Python. As opposed to
other languages with a higher degree of specialization, or even a
greater number of users, I think most of the greatest discoveries and
accomplishments happen when one creator drifts fluently into another
field. This easy cross-pollination is special to Python.

6. Python's organizational neutrality. Straight to the point here,
because it fills my heart with pride and relief every time I think
about it. Python is its own language. Unlike some other languages,
Python has a strong identity*, but it never belonged to IBM and Sun
and Oracle, or Google, or Joyent, or 37Signals, or Mozilla, or
Microsoft. This is the strongest testament of all for Python;
developers opt to use it without a sales pitch or a manager requiring
it of them. Python is a language of choice. In an age of increasing
corporate feudalism, it navigates icy waters and manages its identity
very well. Hats off to the trustees for this one.


* C and C++ are also a fairly neutral language in heavy use, but it also
  lacks a coherent, unified identity.
